here with Jim do genial he's the author
of the JFK assassination the evidence
today and the publisher of Kennedy's and
king.com he's written a four-part
article on the Kennedys and civil rights
and he also gives a full background
going all the way back to the post-civil
war reconstruction so it's a fascinating
deep dive into the topic and very timely
today as we see an increasingly
aggressive white supremacist movement
and anti-democratic actions taken by
state governments such as voter
suppression this is all starting to make
the news again so Jim thanks for writing
this article and thanks for speaking of
today sure David my pleasure let's get
into it to me you start with part one
the rebel yell will rise again you
called it and you you start going into
how the Kennedy administration we're how
they found themselves where they were in
1961 and you go all the way back
practically a hundred years see the
reason I decided to go ahead and start
there is because if you don't have that
background to Kennedy's inauguration
then you don't really know how what a
terrible situation he was caught in
because what happened in the south was
that to a process of presidents not
doing anything about it in the Supreme
Court ratifying what we call the
Redeemer movement wanted to do which was
to nullify the reconstruction acts in
the 13th 14th 15th amendment which they
did all right what happened is that in
the south you had if not as bad as what
existed before the Civil War uh it was
almost as bad as what happened before
the Civil War
okay the the the former freedmen weren't
quite slaves but they were almost all
you know servants sharecroppers etc they
lived in segregated terrible conditions
all right they they did
go to the same schools you know they
couldn't sit in the same areas of
restaurants they couldn't even drink out
of the same water fountains alright and
that was all done that was all done in a
relatively short period of time for
about 1876 to about 1896 and the
horrible part about that is that a large
part of what was done was done by the
Republicans by overthrowing the things
that Lincoln stood for all right and so
let me let me go ahead and and explain
that okay because so many people on the
right try and you know screw this thing
up historically speaking right this is
how it happened in
the Reconstruction era which lasted
approximately 11 years all right
1865 to 1876 there were laws passed and
plus the 13th 14th and 15th amendment
which were supposed to go ahead and
prevent the power elite in the south
from subjugating the former slaves now
called freedmen and what they did is it
was supposed to give them the right to
vote they couldn't be discriminated
against that's the 14th amendment and
they were supposed to have citizenship
rights the 15th amendment now the
problem with this is that once Thaddeus
Stevens and Charles Sumner died okay
which was by about 1874 see they were
the real firebrands of the Radical
Republican segments of the party and
once Lincoln was assassinated there was
never enough men in the south there was
anywhere from 15 to 20,000 troops in the
south
that was never enough men to cover the
vast expanse of say for example Texas or
Louisiana all right and what needed had
been done and was not done this is a
terrible mistake because the Republicans
had so many problems with Andrew Jan
Johnson who took over after Lincoln was
assassinated what should have been done
is that the great plantations should
have been subdivided and parceled out to
the slaves who had worked on them okay
and that would have done two or three
things right off the bat number one
it would have struck a blow a permanent
blow against the upper-class system in
South that was development very
important okay alright number two it
would have given the former slaves a way
of owning their own land and making
their own money okay see sharecropping
they were always in depth with that
system alright because in that system
the owner of the land rented out the
property advanced certain amount of
money for things like seed and tools and
then you had to pay it back when the
crop came in so it was very difficult
for any of their sharecroppers to buy
their own land see this way they would
have had their own land and number three
it would have been a way of upward
social mobility for future generations
okay you know they you know they could
have you know with the money they made
they could have moved out you know they
could have sent their kids to college
that kind of thing but she's at that
contrary to popular belief that never
happened in the south there were only
very very very very small areas where
that happened I think like in the
islands off the coast of South Carolina
it's it's fascinating because it's sort
of it's sort of mirrors even what we saw
in the early Cold War where some of the
things Kennedy was you know trying to
hash out in in the third world it's kind
of land reform it's you know people who
have been repressed by these oligarchy
it's you can kind of you can kind of
draw the line straight up into now
almost what Kennedy was dealing with
directly in a third world yeah that's
true that's absolutely true so that
didn't happen and so what happened was
of course is that the power elite in the
South generally stayed intact alright
now if you had that you had that plus
like I said you never had a big enough
are me in the south to really occupy the
territory in my opinion it the number of
troops in the south should have been at
least three times as many as they put
there like 15 to 20 thousand there
should have been at least forty five to
sixty thousand troops in the south and
that was the only way you could have
occupied the territory and in other
words with that kind of numbers of
troops you could have you know built
forts and had Garrison's throughout the
very bed of the worst states the worst
states in my opinion from my study were
Alabama Mississippi and Louisiana okay
in those states you had the rise of
these various terrorist groups it wasn't
all the Klan okay there was something
called the white line the white League
the Red Shirts etc and the fact that you
didn't have a strong enough force or a
big enough force in the South allowed
them to organize all right and then of
course the body blow to all this was the
election of 1876 which the Republicans
made a deal with the Democrats that they
would let they would let the army leave
the last southern states if they would
get rutted for behaves their their guy
in the white house and plus Hayes had
the promise that he will not send the
army back in and of course that was a
very clear signal that reconstruction
was over the Radical Republicans are no
more we are no longer the party of
Lincoln all right and so when that
happened you essentially had a
free-for-all those powerful
organizations that I just mentioned now
I really didn't have anything much to
worry about okay in the way of there
would not be any retribution
for anything they did and there really
wasn't right and so and finally the
other plan I try and make here let me
ask you one question when you talk you
talk about the Redeemer movement a lot
is that does that encompass all of these
groups that yes about yeah the general
historical term that involves all these
groups is called the redeemer movement
in other words what and the reason that
does the term is that they were going to
redeem the south after reconstruction
okay
they were going to restore the south to
what it was and in large part they did
okay all right now it was made up of a
lot of different terrorist groups all
right which I mentioned before okay but
the overall movement was called the
Redeemer movement all right now what
made it even worse as I was saying is
deceptive
if you take a look at the presidency
after Lincoln I believe if I remember
correctly out of the next five
presidents for them were Republicans
okay it's not broken up until Grover
Cleveland becomes president in the 1890s
well after Civil War and into the 1870s
as a Radical Republican Party was
declining the Republican Party now began
to become the party of big business all
right and what happened was they were
strongly influenced by the philosophy of
Herbert Spencer and William Graham
Sumner no relation to senator the idea
of what we call today the the common
term giving it to it is social Darwinism
all right that somehow wealthy people
are wealthy because they deserve to be
and of course
Gloria's that poor people are poor
because they deserve to be and so they
began to sanction the expansion of big
business which of course would end up
with the Gilded Age you know with the
giant fortunes of people like
Rockefeller and Morgan
so they made a series of decisions in
which somehow and I to this day I don't
understand how they linked it together
that somehow big business in the north
was equivalent to the plantation owners
in the south and so the decision tonight
I named four of them here in in my essay
ok at Kennedy's in King Tom in part one
I mean for the decisions and what these
decisions did all right in truly
incredible way and you really wonder if
it was all coincidence right is that
they more or less neutralized the
reconstruction acts and a 13th 14th and
15th amendment and it started fairly
early like in 1876 the two decisions
that year were us versus Cruikshank and
us versus Reese now what that did what
those two associations did is number one
the first one
us versus Cruikshank essentially let the
guilty parties go for the Colfax
Massacre all right the Colfax massacre
was an unbelievably mind-bending
slaughter a former freed man the latest
estimates I've seen that they have you
know because these things are so covered
up it takes some literally decades to
get at the truth where 105 freedmen were
killed
all right after they surrendered that's
the like you said earlier about these
voting disputes we're having today for
example in Florida and Arizona that's
what this was about
the Colfax massacre was that that's what
it was about the freedmen were trying to
not have the election rigged which they
felt the other side was doing and it
ended up in a big shooting a battle all
right and after the freedmen surrendered
they were slaughtered anyway so the
Cruikshank decision essentially left the
perpetrators go free all right on the
basis that unlike unlike what the 14th
amendment said that this equal
protection under the law the decision
now was that only applied to state
actions not to those taken by individual
citizens if you can believe that I mean
that's a real Mindbender isn't it right
in other words if the Klan or the white
line or the white League or any of those
terrorist organizations was going to
harass injure kill anybody the state
would have to bring them to justice
something that with the Union Army now
gone that was not going to happen okay
or would be very rare if it did okay
right now the other the other case I
named is the u.s. versus Rhys case that
happened the same year and the rescate
had a parallel impact as the Cruikshank
did on terrorism and criminality the
Ruiz case had a parallel impact on the
voting because the Ruiz case was about a
former slave trying to exercise his
right to vote
but he was denied due to his alleged
failure to pay a tax the Supreme Court
upheld the decision against a plaintiff
and that of course went a long way to
neutralizing the Fifteenth Amendment
which made former slaves citizens now
with that with that case on the books it
paved the way for all these artists
barriers to the south would now put up
to obstruct for michlean voting poll
taxes literacy test grandfather clauses
okay you know reading the Constitution
under all that stuff that's how all that
stuff came in and so those who really
did a lot I mean a lot to sanction the
power of the old power structure and
there um they're terrorists arms okay
let some of those groups I mentioned and
so what you had and you know and I
really felt that I had to name these
things because you don't see him in
history books so in the essay I went
ahead and I named some of these horrible
massacres and I provided links to them
the OPA Lucius massacre I think that was
in Louisiana the Meridian race riot that
was in Mississippi the Colfax Massacre
that was in Louisiana the new the Battle
of Liberty place that was in that one
and I will have a picture with here
that one actually took place on the Main
Street of New Orleans on Canal Street
okay
I mean that one is you actually had the
white line group organized five thousand
armed men to get rid of the governor
okay pitch battle against the police
forces which were outnumbered the white
line movement won they removed the
governor
President Grant had to send in the army
okay that's how bad it was and then the
Hamburg massacre of 1876 that's that's
another one all right and that one was
in South Carolina okay so those are some
of the horrible things that took place
around this time okay because there
couldn't they could not maintain any
order the Battle of Liberty place like I
said was about the replacement of the
governor right the the the the Meridian
race riot that was about repairing the
mayor and in that one they actually did
they shot a judge terrorized a courtroom
went to the went to the mayor's home
told the pack up drove them to the
railroad station and bottom a one-way
ticket to New York that's out that you
see the thing is I gotta tell you David
studying this thing as I did and it took
me about three months to write this
thing
do you know Irish Chang was no I know
Irish Chang was the author of a book
about the rape I think it's called the
rape of Nanjing okay that was the
Japanese atrocities on the China
mainland during World War two and it
literally made her mentally ill and she
eventually committed suicide learning
about all this horrible stuff okay and
I'll tell you reading about this stuff
and I'll go explain later why most
people don't know about it because there
was a cover-up about it okay
it's really enough to make you sick and
and the thing is you try and understand
and the only way you can understand it
is that because these people in the
South were born into this state of
slavery grew up with it to them it was
like a natural state of things they
actually thought that African
arrogance were not people are they
didn't did not deserve to have any
rights okay and you know and that's the
only way I can explain this these
terrible horrible things that they did
what but but you know but they really
really were horrifying you know and of
course we know of course if they do have
some parallels today okay all right yeah
almost it's it's almost it's it's kind
of coos and all these different states
there's there's terrorism these are
obviously death squads operating I mean
you don't have to go too far back in
history to see almost this exact same
thing playing out and say Central
America or parts of Asia or a lot of
places where the United States was
helping to fund similar things or
supporting it directly so it's a so also
what they're doing in the American South
with voter suppression right okay you
know that's all aimed at at black people
and poor people all right you know
Republican Party as that's been what
they're about okay and it goes back to
this you know all right except back then
there was no order at all there is no
order at all so they could just kill
these people if they want which they did
and I described the one in Hinds County
where there was supposed to be a debate
between the Republicans and the
Democrats okay but then the white line
group came in and they started shooting
people you know and this battle went on
for several days all right it was
supposed to be a civil debate did not
was not a civil debate all right and so
the aim of all this was what they called
a Mississippi plan after you had in
terminated the voting populace so that
african-americans would be afraid to
register to vote and their white
sympathizers would be inseminated
against standing up for them on the eve
of an election the Redeemers would go
ahead and dress up in some kind of a
costume to cover their identities they
would be armed with rifles and handguns
so you could see them they would get on
their horses and they will go ahead and
parade through the center of town with
torches and now tell me that doesn't
sound like Hitler in about 1932
okay so if you ever watch those
torchlight parades in Berlin okay well
what is the message of course was that
there is no civil order and if you guys
try and vote you're going to be shot
okay so it's better to stay home and of
course that had terrific impact I think
most people know that from about 1865 to
about 1876 there was something like
sixteen or seventeen black Americans who
went to Washington as senators or
congressmen all right all right and
there were literally scores of them who
got voted into state and local offices
but after this after this after what the
Redeemers accomplished okay by terror
then the african-american vote in some
counties in Mississippi
nobody was registered
you know whereas there were many many
many Richard upwards of like 75 80 90 %
of blazes okay alright and it was a good
County a good County in which you had
25% of black Americans were registered
okay that was a really good place all
right that's how bad it was but of
course what happened after this is that
that was no more that was no more you
know they even had an all that was
something called the white primary for
African Americans weren't even allowed
to run okay
and that was all part of those two
decisions that I talked about the recent
Cruikshank decision by the Supreme Court
which of course was a mainly Republicans
at that time all right all right so what
happened is that the whole idea of
reconstruction was essentially
overthrown by the Supreme Court
decisions and by the fact that no
president the only one who barely did
anything about it and this was not
nearly enough horizontal was Ulysses
Grant okay now let me name the the last
two decisions by this Republican Supreme
Court that essentially put the cap on
that there was not going to be any
question about it was running south okay
after this there was one called
in 1883 the civil rights cases in which
the Supreme Court went ahead and put
together I think five different cases
all right and they all concerned
discrimination in public accommodations
so we had one on criminal law we had one
in voting rights this one would be
discrimination in public accommodations
all right now the Civil Rights Act of
1875 was supposed to
outlaw down all right but again when
they began to beat the screen against in
the South the Supreme Court sided with
the defendants okay even though the
Civil Rights Act was grounded on the
13th and 14th amendments all right the
opinion in this case was written by out
of the why grant every point of this guy
I think it was grant a former
corporation railroad lawyer Joseph
Bradley his contention was that
discrimination did not necessarily
translate into a form of subjugation
okay now obviously to me that's really
kind of bizarre also that Congress did
not have the power to nullify private
discrimination or overrule estate if it
chose to ignore a private or local law
all right now this wasn't what he wrote
quote individual invasion of individual
rights is not the subject matter of the
amendment unquote
believe this stuff but see this is the I
drew a parallel at the beginning see
this is the kind of thing you get with
these kind of judges who I parallel with
the federal society today you know
people like you know Cavanaugh and
Scalia and those kind of in Rehnquist
you know what
now if if the 13th or 14th amendment was
not meant not aimed at individuals who
was it aimed at well we're going to
learn that in a minute but of course the
coup de Gras in all this was Plessy
versus Ferguson okay 1896 what I think
everybody's familiar with that's the one
that said that the freedmen did not have
the right to travel in the same
facilities as everybody else okay
in other words just because you were
separated from the white Americans did
not mean that your facilities were worse
than white Americans okay under how
about this one listen to this one quote
if one race be inferior to the other
socially the Constitution of the United
States cannot put them upon the same
plane unquote now that's not racist I
don't know what the heck is okay right
but but but that's what the court said
you know and so what happened of course
is that the Republican Party this is
there's a very good book on this by a
guy named Lawrence Goldstone and it's
called inherently unequal that's where I
got most of this stuff all right and
it's only about 200 pages which is a
very good book see as the Republican
Party was tracking towards big business
okay the their justices on the Supreme
Court
we're diminishing the 14th Amendment's
effectiveness to maintain rights for the
freedmen
which what is original intent that was
the original intent of those amendments
in those laws while it's expanding those
amendments for the purposes of
corporation which had nothing to do with
their original intent you know you kind
of mentioned how the same Supreme Court
justices managed to turn the 14th
amendment and from something that was
protecting individuals rights into
something that was protecting corporate
rights do you want to talk a little bit
about how they managed to toufool that I
see what they did is that by actually
lying about the debate that took place
the passed the fourteenth they actually
did this they actually had a lawyer
before the Supreme Court who lied about
what was in a debate on the Fourteenth
Amendment okay and from there they began
to go ahead and aggrandize that
amendment into being something that
wasn't okay in other words it was a day
now argued that it should apply to
businesses and really not the freedmen
and so I think the figures I saw on this
in Goldstone's book or somewhere else is
that the decisions for the 14th
amendment in regard to businesses were
like in over a hundred and fifty cases
you know from about 1876 to the turn of
the century each one of them because you
know the the whole ambition of the
Northeast economic power center was to
make corporations into the
of human-beings their rights of people
okay therefore it was very difficult to
rule against them no matter what they
did and so that's what they did
they do slowly over time you know they
began to make corporations the real
intent of the 14th amendment when it was
all based upon a lie
the guy was Roscoe Conkling Roscoe
Conkling was a big business lawyer from
I think New York who went before the
Supreme Court and he just essentially
lied his head off and said during the
debate of the Fourteenth Amendment there
was a part of the debate that wanted to
apply this to businesses and of course
the big business back then with
railroads and he was you know being paid
to represent the railroads ok and so
that's what he argued and so the Supreme
Court which I said like I said earlier
was already predisposed because there
were two railroad corporate lawyers on
it already and the Republicans dominated
the picks of the Supreme Court that's
what they did they you cannot in other
work if you remember the 14th amendment
essentially says that you cannot you
cannot be biased against any kind of you
have to treat everybody equally that's
what it says you cannot discriminate ok
against any anyone based upon race okay
and so what this is what they said they
said we'll see now we want to apply this
thing that you can't discriminate among
businesses ok we want to give the same
rights to because it's called the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment right ok and so we want to
give equal protection to businesses to
and that's why these businesses which
became so powerful very difficult ok to
sue them because they essentially had
the rights of human beings which is
really kind of nutty when you think
about it
okay but that's the way that it came
down and the reason to be came down that
way is because of the makeup of that
Supreme Court yeah so I hope anybody
listening to this really understands
that the people that get on the sub to
the Supreme Court or even circuit courts
it's very very important it's a very
important issue it impacts history you
know whether we like it or not I mean
look at Citizens United
okay you know so whenever you hear these
guys on the right time original intent
original intent
well reminded about this okay with these
Republican justices completely perverted
the original intent of those amendments
and I'd like to know how many of those
Republicans were screaming in the 40s in
the 50s and the 60s okay one the one of
this century when the after-effects to
those amendments you know you have
people like William F Buckley and James
Kilpatrick who are rooting them on
states rights states rights okay goes
all the way up to Ronald Reagan in 1980
states rights states rights where he
made that speech in the Showboat County
Fair in Mississippi seven miles away
from where Chaney Schwerner and Goodman
their dead bodies were found out there
reverted by the Klan in cooperation with
the police okay so tell me what would
what he was doing there yeah great guy
all right so the Plessy versus Ferguson
case kind of unleashed a kind of mask
pathology you know in the south where as
we know everything now went and I talked
here about you torture murder burning of
San Jose and this was in I think 1899
three years after in which they broke
into a jail took this black isn't around
to the center of the square the mayor
and the judges pleaded with the crowd to
take him back they walked him to the
outskirts of town they went ahead and
they roped him up to a tree they douse
him in oil they cut off one ear then
they cut off another ear they stripped
him naked mutilated his body and then
set him afire and then as his body was
collapsing they kicked them back into
the flames when he was incinerated they
cut open his body carved out his heart
and chopped his heart up into pieces and
sold as souvenirs okay that's that's how
nutty these people were okay that's how
imbued with racism they were all right
and then of course that led since nobody
was prosecuted for that that led to even
bigger bigger atrocities and I talked
about here about the Rosewood massacre
in Florida where an entire village was
incinerated I have a picture of that one
Oh
Tulsa Oklahoma a whole section of town
was set on fire and as many as 300
African Americans were killed and then
in ochio Florida 60 were killed 330
acres were burned and the survivors were
marched to the train station and forced
to leave town their crime they wanted to
vote so whenever you hear somebody
droning on about American exceptionalism
okay then remind them of these Supreme
Court decisions okay and what happened
as a result of them because like I said
this kind of reminds me you know the
opening attacks of the Third Reich
against the Jews you know in Nazi
Germany
all right you know
so now as I said there was a cover-up
see these were so horrifying and so bad
that there had to be a cover-up snapped
on all right this couldn't just happen
in America but it did right and that
cover-up that was meant to go ahead and
make American exceptionalism live was on
two levels it was on the level of
popular culture and also in academia and
a lot of people fell for it including me
including John Kennedy okay because
that's how thorough was see in the
popular culture level there were
novelists like Thomas Dixon and Claud
Bowers okay and they essentially what
they did is they characterized
reconstruction as a bunt as the black
Americans got elected to office were a
bunch of aimless bums for drunken idiots
okay who bankrupted certain states and
made tons of money off those states by
corruption and embezzlement and they
also of course went ahead and tried to
seduce the white woman there the
Redeemers were glorified as the rescuers
of southern honor and so that was the
beginning of what we called the lost
cause
the mythology of the Lost Cause that
somehow there was something great about
southern culture prior to 1860 okay and
we had to go back and get it we had to
redeem it okay Dixon did this with a
series of three novels called the
leopard spots two Klansmen and the
traitor and of course Dixon was a racist
I prefer his father was part of the Klan
here's a sentence from the leopard spots
quote the Negro is a human donkey you
can train him but you can't make him a
horse what is called our race prejudice
de simply God's first law of nature the
instinct of self-preservation unquote
see that's what I mean these people
really believe this stuff these really
looks yeah yes oh yeah yeah the Klansmen
the middle one in that trilogy was made
into a play and then in 1915 the film
director DW Griffith transformed it into
an unbelievably successful movie called
Birth of a Nation
by the way Birth of a Nation if I
remember correctly about this if you
translated the price of admission back
then to today Birth of a Nation would be
in the top five you know that's how
successful was cuz that's how many
people who's involved yeah right
Wow right that's how popular it was okay
now if you can believe it I know it's
hard to believe but it's true Woodrow
Wilson screen that movie at the White
House all right and of course most
people are not most but many people have
seen the film and what the film did is
it turned a reconstruction upside down
it's the white citizens who are preyed
upon by these imperious black Americans
and it's the Klan who rescues those poor
white people from the clutches of the
free men but now coarseness ended in
their natural state and ruin this out so
the Klan is made into a hero and this is
what I mean about the cover-up now the
other part of the cover-up was in
academia alright because see what you
have to do is to control what people are
thinking you have to get to history
books and textbooks so people like John
W Burgess James F Rhodes and above all
William Dunning began to write books and
they're a tremendous influence on the
way
college and high school textbooks were
written and of course these guys are
really Burgess once wrote quote a black
skin means membership in a race of men
which is never of itself succeeded and
subjecting passion to reason and is
never therefore created any civilization
of any kind that's what he said well of
course if you know anything about the
history of Africa they did create two
great empires songhay and Mali okay in
Africa
alright so donning became a professor
Williams at Columbia and this was his
specialty and so if you remember what
happened there picture of the south was
prominently made up of scalawags from
the south who sympathized with the
freedmen the carpetbaggers who came down
from the north and these incompetent
drunken black American legislators
that's what everybody would I mean I
remember distinctly reading about that
in junior high in high school that was
my picture of what reconstruction was
about and they combined you to write
well yeah I grew up in Texas and I mean
them you know it was in the in the 80s
and that's what they're teaching us
about carpetbaggers and scalawags rights
right and so they combined them to run
their state economies into the ground
and so there's no trace in any of those
renditions of the man homicidal mass
murders of the Redeemer cause you can't
find them there all right and so Dunning
became the kind of guy who everybody
followed okay in this whole
reconstruction rendition even though it
was completely wrong John F Kennedy and
profiles encourage he actually kind of
caricatured Thaddeus Stevens in that
book and then it wasn't until nineteen
sixty-two sixty-three where he began to
think boy was I wrong they actually said
that to Arthur Schlesinger and also
Bobby
Kennedy you know these southern people
really are impossible all right
and their own was in northern he was a
Columbia from my mom beans and gallon
yeah all right now now this could not
have gone unless all series of
presidents sanctioned it okay and
unfortunately both Democrats Republicans
look the other way
right okay people like Woodrow Wilson
okay people like Teddy Roosevelt people
like William Howard Taft people like
Calvin Coolidge all right
people like Harding people like Herbert
Hoover actually took money from the clam
Coolidge and Harding actually watch
parades go by in front of the White
House which a Klansmen were dressed up
and I got this picture Coolidge actually
met with a whole bunch of confederate
veterans in front of the that's that's
just sickening okay but all these
presidents looked away you know they did
nothing in the face of all this alright
and so the man who actually began to
turn this around is somebody who almost
nobody knows about and it's a shame it's
a disgrace okay because it wasn't Martin
Luther King who began the modern civil
rights movement that simply won it was a
guy named Charles Hamilton Houston
before King a couple decades before game
Charles Hamilton Houston was an officer
in World War one who was greatly
disappointed because he learned that
even in the military he was being
discriminated against okay all right as
a as an african-american so he promised
that when he returned he was going to do
something about this so he went to
Harvard he graduated and he decided that
he had to build his
own school of law and trained a whole
generation of lawyers to start reversing
those horrible terrible decisions the
Supreme Court had made from 1876 to 1896
culminating in Plessy versus Ferguson
that was his ambition and so he opened
up this College at Howard University in
Washington DC and he began to train a
bunch of crackerjack lawyers like Oliver
Miller and Thurgood Marshall and the
n-double-a-cp eventually hired him to be
their lead lawyer in order to eventually
knock out Plessy versus Ferguson and so
he used to managed a brilliant campaign
because he knew he couldn't just on his
first case try and knock out Plessy
versus Ferguson so he began this whole
series of cases that attacked
discrimination he began in graduate
schools and professional schools in the
south and the border states trying to
show that black Americans were not given
anywhere near the same opportunities to
educate themselves and to go out and
become Dennis and lawyers and doctors
and PhDs as white people were anyone I
name one famous case here sweat versus
painter but he won about three or four
of those cases from 1936 to 1950 all
right and then that set the stage for
what his great ambition was which was a
knock out Plessy versus Ferguson but
unfortunately he died of a heart attack
in 1950 and Thurgood Marshall carried on
he actually just said you know the
highest compliment you could pay about
Houston he said we were just carrying
his bags that's all all right but the
thing is those decisions those court
decisions that Charles Houston won they
were
more than the mainstream press but at
this time and you had literally dozens
of newspapers in the black community
like the Chicago Defender the Pittsburgh
courier etc and they got played up in
those newspapers and they inspired other
people like Phillip Randolph and Bayard
Rustin and they organized a
demonstration in Washington during World
War two in which they said we want to do
something about lynching we want to
integrate the military and this big
defense build-up that FDR is running we
want equal opportunities for black
Americans and they threatened to have a
huge demonstration if Roosevelt didn't
agree and so Roosevelt agreed to go
ahead and give him the last one about
equal opportunities in defense plants so
they called it off now Harry Truman was
a little bit better in that he went
ahead and he tried to get a civil rights
bill passed okay
and I linked to the the text that he
used for that but it didn't work
okay the legendary southern filibuster
blocked it I guess I should explain what
that is right yeah okay see once the
power elite the planter class took over
the south again by about 1890
they blocked african-americans from
voting right then they can they
completely took over the almost every
aspect you know the judiciary the state
legislatures representatives in Congress
and the Senate and so they could block
any legislation from coming through in
Washington they had an incredible amount
of power in blocking any civil rights
laws from getting through the Senate and
they did is of course by something
called the filibuster at that time the
few had that have 67 votes to override
the filibuster because if you didn't one
of these guys to myself okay would get
up in front of the podium you know when
he started reading the phone book and
since there's no way you can stop a guy
from talking he would go on for days on
in okay and he would only pass off to
somebody who's not like he did so these
filibusters would go on for days on in
you know and you couldn't break them
alright and so no civil rights law no
civil rights law went through Congress
from I believe the late 1870s until
Kennedy
to break that streak with the civil
rights bill that he put together in 1963
we'll talk about that later of course
all right so Truman could not get a
civil rights law through as bill through
and so Randolph said okay then you're
going to desegregate the military then
or we're going to go ahead and call our
demonstrations out so Truman agreed to
desegregate the military and he also
made some speeches against Eisenhower in
1952 all right now Eisenhower of course
was never one understand I mean I just
never had a very bad record on civil
rights for a very long even after he
left the White House and Kennedy became
president okay he said things I do not
believe that we can cure all the evil in
men's hearts by law that was one of his
close I write well that might be true
but at least you can pass a law that
will create what will stop evil people
from killing somebody from hanging them
okay I think you know yeah so piss of a
Rights Division in the White House did
very little and what makes that so bad
is because in 1954 you had the Brown
versus Board case in other words
Thurgood Marshall did what his mentor
Charles Houston had always wanted to do
Brown versus Board overruled Plessy
versus Ferguson
facilities are not evil all right so you
had this line and Eisenhower could have
upheld it which he did not see the
combination of the brown decision plus
the Rosa Parks King Montgomery bus
boycott okay those are like two atomic
bombs they went off here in the south
and so Eisenhower had a great
opportunity to support the brown case he
actually tried to talk Earl Warren out
of siding with the defendants in that
case that's how bad Eisenhower was all
right and then he also said that that
this he actually said this to a reporter
that the brown case setback progress in
the south 15 years that Nixon was just
as bad he says the law goes further than
public opinion can be brought along to
support it may prove to do more harm
than good okay
so that of course is a self-fulfilling
prophecy the law was not going to do
anything unless the administration
supported the law and they had no
intention of doing that in fact in the
six years they were in the White House
neither one of them came out and
endorsed a brown decision hmm all right
so now what happens of course is that in
1957 the Little Rock School Board voted
to integrate Central High School in
other words they were very abide by the
brown decision and there were nine
African American students chosen to be
the first black Americans go to Central
High on a day that was supposed to
happen
the governor Orval Faubus decided to
defy the school board September 3rd the
first day of class five is station and
National Guard around the school not to
protect the students from coming in but
to keep the
the Little Rock Nine outside now the
terrible part about that of course is
that you had this ugly unseemly
insulting crowd because they didn't want
to see these students at their school
and there's a picture of it I have you
know in the first part of my essay
all right now what made this even worse
is that Eisenhower didn't do anything
for 22 days three weeks he lets us go on
right and he didn't blame the governor
he didn't consider it Washington's
business in fact he went on vacation to
Newport Rhode Island all right now as a
spectacle dragged on and it got more and
more attention okay then Eisenhower had
to do something so he Bobby went and
visited him and he thought he had an
agreement with fathers that there was he
was going to pull out the National Guard
okay he didn't it took a court
injunction against the governor to
finally pull out the National Guard on
Friday September 20th now you can
believe it on the following Monday with
no forces there at all the students
tried to go inside but they were
assailed jeered spat upon by the white
crowd outside it wasn't until the 25th
the 25th that was all state authority
broken down that Eisenhower decided to
send in paratroopers to control the mob
now as I write here that 22 days
standoff helped convince many people
liberal persuasion or who were black
Americans that the Republican Party did
not have their interests at heart
you know if you ever needed any more
convincing that was it okay I mean as
Robert Shogun of the LA Times wrote
Eisenhower was in a very strong position
to do something about this problem he
had won two landslide elections he has
strong popularity in almost all parts of
the country he could hurt everyone that
this moved towards reconciliation was in
their interest because at that time
ideas about the issue we're in an
emerging moldable form at that time in
the 50s so what did he decide to do not
very much in 19th even after Little Rock
by the way Herbert Brownell his Attorney
General Senate bill to Congress creating
something called the u.s. Civil Rights
Commission this was a six person panel
furnished with a chief counsel those
imposed to submit a report and racial
findings to the White House in its final
form it was as much Lyndon Johnson's act
as it was Eisenhower's because Johnson
realized that he was never going to get
this through the filibustering southern
Block in the south right but he looked
at his at this as an opportunity to make
himself more palatable to northern
western liberals if he decided to run in
1960 okay in its final form the the bill
was kind of defanged of its strongest
aspects in order to make it through the
Senate so it wouldn't be filibustered
see this this made it through but it
didn't really because Johnson made a
deal with the leaders of the southern
filibustering group and that was Senator
Sam Ervin of North Carolina Strom
Thurmond of South Carolina and Richard
Russell of George
okay and the agreement was I'll defang
the bill I'll pull out its strongest
aspects and we'll just leave it with
this Civil Rights Commission okay and
it's not going to be very enforceable
anyway okay so in agreement with that
well you guys not filibuster well they
agree to do it but they double-cross
them because Strom Thurmond did do a
filibuster and I think that was a remind
Johnson don't ever try this again buddy
okay
all right now as Harris Wolford who was
it one of the assistants on that u.s.
Civil Rights Commission later wrote
Eisenhower hardly supported them at all
okay almost nothing at all very
surprised at that all right now because
of the brown decision the south is going
you're getting crazy because they know
that this couldn't gets enforced it's
the end of what they have in this out so
now there began to be bombings and
assaults all over the south the Klan is
now has new life okay and a lot of
people kind of figured that what
Eisenhower Nixon we're doing was
essentially leaving this problem they
didn't want to deal with it whoever came
after them hmm all right which of course
we know is going to be JFK so in other
words from 1876 the triumph of the
Redeemer caused to 1960 okay that's a
period of 84 years you had Roosevelt
issuing a Fair Employment order for the
defense industry Truman and in granting
the military you had Eisenhower after
three weeks of nothing but harassment
finally sending in troops to Little Rock
and then I didn't our and LBJ created
the Civil Rights Commission with little
enforcement power that's all that was
done that's all that
is done in nearly a century
to reverse what had happened in the
south all those horrible atrocities and
murders and hangings and lynchings you
know and the burning up of whole cities
and towns okay that that's all you have
okay
and so it was less than two John F
Kennedy simple because nobody else
wanted to do anything about it this is
our hidden history
you